DOCS-11179 sample data java sdk sg (#126)
mulesoft/docs-mule-sdk: modules/ROOT/pages/sample-data-java-sdk.adoc

= Sample Data
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Sample data enables operations and sources to provide examples of the output

Reviewer: I was not sure if "sample data" was the name of something or just...sample data.
Does this work?
```suggestion
The sample data feature enables operations and sources to provide examples of the output
```

> they produce. These examples show information obtained from a live system
> through a connection or the output format from a connectionless example.

Reviewer: Do the examples show EITHER information or output , or EITHER a connection or nonconnection?
Is the main point that the examples come from a live system?
If so, maybe that should be highlighted in the wording, something like...:
```suggestion
they produce. These examples come from a live system, either as information obtained through a connection or as the output format from a connectionless example.
```

Reviewer: I'm still not sure what this means, to get either information or a format (?), but I suppose your audience does?

> Sample data is supported by Mule 4.4.0 or later, however, all Anypoint Connectors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sample data is supported by Mule 4.4.0 or later. However, all Anypoint Connectors
```

> can use this feature, regardless of their Mule version.

Reviewer: If all connectors can use this feature, why do we even mention Mule support?

Reviewer: I think that the text of a Level 1 topic set intro should also mention the subtopics contained within it.
Are SDK APIs, Sample Data Examples, OAuth Token Refresh, Aliases and Acting Parameters, and Error Conditions clearly subtopics to Sample Data and equal, peer subtopics?

Author: Good idea! I will include an intro topic with all the subtopics to Sample Data.

== SDK APIs

> 

Reviewer: Try to provide a bit of text here that addresses the audience directly, tells why they want or need the following information, and tells exactly what information comes next (the subtopics, but not their details). Here's an example:
```suggestion
Use the blah, blah, and blah SDK APIs to provide sample data, communicate errors, and associate resolvers to enhanced components, respectively.
```

=== SampleDataResolver

> Implement this API to enhance operations and message sources with sample data

Reviewer: Is there an associated task that describes the steps for implementation?

that is representative of the data the component outputs in real production
scenarios.

Implementations must:

* Provide a default constructor.
* Provide samples for both the payload and the message attributes, which
return a Result<T,A> object. Generic types always match the return types of
the enhanced component. For components that return dynamic types, each
implementation returns instances of the correct dynamic type. If the

> operation does not return attributes, use Result<T, Void>.

Reviewer: Take another look at this list item to determine whether it requires this level of detail, which its peer list items do not. If so, due to its length, I suggest inserting a linespace so that audiences can more quickly parse the list items:
```suggestion
* Provide samples for both the payload and the message attributes, which
return a Result<T,A> object. 
+
Generic types always match the return types of
the enhanced component. For components that return dynamic types, each
implementation returns instances of the correct dynamic type. If the
operation does not return attributes, use Result<T, Void>.
```

* Guarantee that fetching sample data does not generate any significant side
effects on the target system.
* Not be used to return large objects or data streams. The data should fit into
the memory of a small worker instance.

Implementations can access parameters, configurations, and connections to
generate the sample data through the `@Parameter`, `@Config`, and `@Connection`
annotations.

> For connectors, implementations are the most valuable when returning real data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For connectors, implementations are most valuable when returning real data
```

> from the system they connect to instead of returning hard coded values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from the system they connect to instead of returning hard-coded values.
```

The following example illustrates a SampleDataResolver API:

[source,java,linenums]
----
/**
* [...]
*
* @param <T> the generic type of the output value
* @param <A> the generic type of the message attributes
* @since 1.4
*/
@MinMuleVersion("4.4")
public interface SampleDataProvider<T, A> {

 /**
  * An ID that identifies each implementation of this interface. It must be unique among implementations in the same
  * extension. Subsequent invocations must always return the same fixed value.
  *
  * @return the resolver's id
  */
 String getId();

 /**
  * Obtains and returns the sample information.
  *
  * @return a {@link Result} object
  * @throws SampleDataException if the sample cannot be obtained
  */
 Result<T, A> getSample() throws SampleDataException;
}
----

Streaming is not supported for:

> * Operations or sources that return an InputStream. The resolver always returns

Reviewer: Same thing here, re. length:
```suggestion
* Operations or sources that return an InputStream value. 
+
The resolver always returns
```

> implementations that do not require a connection, such as a ByteArrayInputStream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
implementations that do not require a connection, such as a ByteArrayInputStream value
```

or any other offline implementations that have already procured the entire data

> stream before returning the getSample() method, as the InputStream is fully

Reviewer: GLOBALLY replace "as" with "because" when that is what you mean, for translatability:
```suggestion
stream before returning the getSample() method, because the InputStream value is fully
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure that "value" is the correct noun object, but the name/syntax InputStream and similar needs to be presented preceded by "the" and followed by a noun object, or without either the "the" or object.
GLOBAL

Author: Committed this and globally changed

consumable even after the underlying connection is closed. Avoid using temporal
buffer files as well.

> * Operations that return a PagingProvider<C, T> as they are considered

Reviewer: dittos
```suggestion
* Operations that return a PagingProvider<C, T> value, because they are considered
```

streaming. The limitations explained in the previous bullet apply. In these

> cases, a List<T> of the same item type is returned instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cases, a List<T> value of the same item type is returned instead.
```

=== SampleDataException

> This class communicates errors while fetching sample data so the

Reviewer: Why is this API referred to as a "class" here? 
I expect the three API descriptions to be roughly parallel. 
Is further explanation of calling this "a class" required?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This class communicates errors while fetching sample data so that the
```

> runtime can handle them accordingly. Use the predefined failure code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
runtime can handle those errors accordingly. Use the predefined failure code
```

Reviewer: Is there an associated task that describes "using" failure codes and what makes them necessary?

messages described in this class if necessary.

> The following example illustrates a SampleDataException class:

Reviewer: class or API?

[source,java,linenums]
----
/**
* {@link Exception} to indicate that an error occurred fetching sample data through a {@link SampleDataProvider}.
*

> * @since 1.4.0

Reviewer: Are these code comments editable?
Unnec. linespace?

Author: Technically these are javadoc comments part of the code but I can edit the descriptions with your suggestions.

*/

> public class SampleDataException extends MuleException {

Reviewer: Is this line complete? It ends with an open brace....

 /**
  * Signals an unexpected exception
  */
 public final static String UNKNOWN = "UNKNOWN";

 /**
  * Indicates that the {@link SampleDataProvider} didn't return any information
  */
 public final static String NO_DATA_AVAILABLE = "NO_DATA_AVAILABLE";

 /**
  * Indicates that a connection couldn't be established
  */
 public final static String CONNECTION_FAILURE = "CONNECTION_FAILURE";

 /**

>   * Indicates that Sample Data resolution was attempted on a {@link Location} which doesn't exist

Reviewer: All the "which"s in these comments should be "that"s....

 /**
  * Indicates that Sample Data resolution was attempted on a component which doesn't support that capability
  */
 public final static String NOT_SUPPORTED = "NOT_SUPPORTED";

 /**
  * Indicates that Sample Data resolution was attempted on an unregistered Extension
  */
 public final static String INVALID_TARGET_EXTENSION = "INVALID_TARGET_EXTENSION";

 private final String failureCode;

 public SampleDataException(String message, String failureCode) {
   super(createStaticMessage(message));
   this.failureCode = failureCode;
 }

 public SampleDataException(String message, String failureCode, Throwable cause) {
   super(createStaticMessage(message), cause);
   this.failureCode = failureCode;
 }

 public SampleDataException(I18nMessage message, String failureCode) {
   super(message);
   this.failureCode = failureCode;
 }

 public SampleDataException(I18nMessage message, String failureCode, Throwable cause) {
   super(message, cause);
   this.failureCode = failureCode;
 }

 /**
  * @return The failure code of the error that produced the error
  */
 public String getFailureCode() {
   return failureCode;
 }
}
----

=== @SampleData

> This annotation associates a resolver to the enhanced component. It is

Reviewer: ...and this is called an "annotation," vs. "class" and "API"?
Does your audience know what "a resolver" is?
Or what "the enhanced component" is?

applied at the type level in sources and at the method level for operations.

The following example illustrates a `@SampleData` annotation:

[source,java,linenums]
----
/**
* Associates a {@link Source} class or operation method with a {@link SampleDataProvider}.
*
* @since 1.4.0
* @see SampleDataProvider
*/
@Target({TYPE, METHOD})
@Retention(RUNTIME)
@Documented
public @interface SampleData {

 /**
  * @return the associated {@link SampleDataProvider}
  */
 Class<? extends SampleDataProvider> value();

 /**
  * @return bindings between parameters in the {@link SampleData#value()} to extraction expressions.
  */
 Binding[] bindings() default {};

}
----

== Sample Data Examples

> 

Reviewer: Ditto comment at Line 14.
GLOBALLY avoid presenting titles/headings contiguously, without a snippet of text between.

Reviewer: BREAK here to commit

=== Using Only Operation Parameters

> Use this example to provide static sample data without using a connection.

Reviewer: Does this title really represent the topic of providing the sample data without a connection?
The title and first sentence don't really support each other the way that they should.

Reviewer: "Obtain Sample Data Through a Direct Operation"?

Imagine there is a new GitHub connector that contains an operation that

> retrieves information for a given user in JSON format. However, you do not want

Reviewer: Is "for a given user" necessary? It complicates the sentence and does not seem pertinent to the task.

to consume an API call while providing sample data because there are a limited
number of calls or because it is too costly. Instead, directly implement

> the operation.

Reviewer: to consume one of a limited number or costly API calls, so you directly implement the operation.

The following example illustrates a definition of the operation with the provider attached
through the `@SampleData` annotation:

[source,java,linenums]
----
@SampleData(JsonSampleDataProvider.class)
public Result<InputStream, Void> getUserInfo(String username, @Connection GitHubConnection connection) {
 // operation code...
}
----

The following example illustrates the sample data provider implementation, which uses the same

> mechanism to inject parameters. The `@Parameter` annotation has the same name

Reviewer: To what does "the sample data provider implementation" refer: the implementation shown previous to this?
Is that what "the same mechanism" also refers to?

> and type as the operation’s parameter, which is *username*:

Reviewer: Does name+type=operation parameter? That sounds like we are equating two things to one: `username` is both name and type?

Reviewer: I think *username* is supposed to be `username` (syntax)

[source,java,linenums]
----
public class JsonSampleDataProvider implements SampleDataProvider<InputStream, Void> {

   private static JsonObject sampleJson = new JsonObject();

   public JsonSampleDataProvider() {
       sampleJson.add("company", "Mulesoft");
       sampleJson.add("email", "maxmule2007@mulesoft.com");
       sampleJson.add("repositories", new JsonArray("mule-api", "data-weave-2"));
   }

   @Parameter
   private String username;

   @Override
   public Result<InputStream, ObjectAttributes> getSample() throws SampleDataException {

       sampleJson.addFirst("username", username);
       String body = sampleJson.getBody();

       return Result.<InputStream, ObjectAttributes>builder()
               .output(new ByteArrayInputStream(body.getBytes()))
               .mediaType(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
               .length(body.length())
               .build();
   }

   @Override
   public String getId() {
       return "jsonResolver";
   }
}
----

> Imagine the value for the *username* parameter is John Doe. The provider

Reviewer: `username`
`John Doe`

returns the following JSON:

[source,json5]
----
{
	"username": "John Doe",
	"company": "Mulesoft",
	"email": "maxmule2007@mulesoft.com",
	"repositories": ["mule-api", "data-weave-2"]
}
----

> === Using Configuration and Connection

Reviewer: Obtain Sample Data Using Parameters, Configuration Values, and a Connection"?

Use this example to provide dynamic sample data according to parameter and
configuration values, while also requiring a connection.

Imagine there is a new GitHub connector that contains both an operation and
source that:

> 

Reviewer: None of these is a sentence; remove periods

   @Connection
   private GitHubConnection connection;

   @Config
   private GitHubConfig config;

   @Override
   public Result<InputStream, ObjectAttributes> getSample() throws SampleDataException {
       String query = "objectType=" + objectType;
       if (status != null) {
           query += "; status=" + status;
       }
       query += ";organization=" + config.getOrganization();

       List<GitHubObject> jsonDocs = connection.query(query);

       if (jsonDocs.isEmpty()) {
           throw new SampleDataException("No data available", NO_DATA_AVAILABLE);
       }

       GitHubObject sample = jsonDocs.get(0);
       String body = sample.getBody();

       return Result.<InputStream, ObjectAttributes>builder()
               .output(new ByteArrayInputStream(body.getBytes()))
               .mediaType(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
               .length(body.length())
               .attributes(sample.getMetadata())
               .attributesMediaType(MediaType.APPLICATION_JAVA)
               .build();
   }

   @Override
   public String getId() {
       return "objectResolver";
   }
}
----

Both components have the same type signature as the sample data provider. They

> define the same parameters that the resolver needs, but they both have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
define the same parameters required by the resolver, but each has its own parameters that are not required by the resolver.
```

> different additional parameters that the resolver does not require. The resolver

Reviewer: See above

accesses the parameters, connection, and configuration the same way a
value provider does.

> If no data is available, the resolver throws a *SampleDataException* with a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no data is available, the resolver throws a `SampleDataException` error with a
```

Reviewer: GLOBALLY search for bold (UI label) that should be mono (syntax).

Author: 2 spots fixed

defined failure code.

== OAuth Token Refresh

If your operation or source uses an OAuth connection, trigger a token

> refresh in the provider by throwing an *AccessTokenExpiredException* inside

Reviewer: ```suggestion
refresh in the provider by throwing an `AccessTokenExpiredException` error inside
```
Can we really say that "you" can throw an exception? This wording sounds odd to me.

the getSample() method, as done for
https://docs.mulesoft.com/mule-sdk/1.1/oauth-token-expiration[operations or sources].

The following example illustrates a token refresh:

[source,java,linenums]
----
public class RefreshedOAuthSampleDataProvider implements SampleDataProvider<String, String> {

 public static final String SAMPLE_PAYLOAD_VALUE = "Sample payload!";
 public static final String SAMPLE_ATTRIBUTES_VALUE = "Sample Attributes!";

 @Connection
 private TestOAuthConnection testOAuthConnection;

 @Override
 public String getId() {
   return "OAuth sample data";
 }

 @Override
 public Result getSample() throws SampleDataException {
   if (!testOAuthConnection.getState().getAccessToken().contains("refresh")) {
     throw new AccessTokenExpiredException();
   }
   return builder()
       .output(SAMPLE_PAYLOAD_VALUE)
       .attributes(SAMPLE_ATTRIBUTES_VALUE)
       .build();
 }
}
----

== Aliases and Acting Parameters

> Parameter resolution works in the same way as value providers. Aliases are

Reviewer: "resolution" and "providers" are not equal objects, so how can they work in the same way?
Parameter resolution is a process; value providers are entities.

Author: fixed

> supported consistently, similar to defining an acting parameter as part of a

Reviewer: What does it mean say that aliases are "supported consistently"? How does this relate to the sentence before it?

Author: Yeah, the flow does seem off.

parameter.

== Error Conditions

During compilation, a series of validations check that the sample data provider
complies with some of the restrictions described previously:

* Output and Attributes Type Check

The SDK validates that the provider is applied over components whose output
and attributes types match the ones declared on its <T, A> generic tuple. A
validation error is thrown otherwise.

* Parameters Usage Check

The SDK validates that if a sample data provider uses a parameter, the related
component also declares it as a parameter, while also checking that in both
declarations the parameters are of the same type. A validation error is
thrown otherwise.

* Connection and Configuration Usage Check

> The SDK validates that if a sample data provider uses a connection and/or

Reviewer: GLOBALLY replace "and/or" with the most precise of the two terms.

configuration, the related component also uses them. A validation error is
thrown otherwise.

* Instantiation Check

The SDK validates that each provider is instantiable, which is a required
condition. A validation error is thrown otherwise.

* No Void

A sample data provider cannot be placed on a void operation. A validation error
is thrown otherwise.

* Streaming

> Streaming is not supported. However, there is no enforcement of this but the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although streaming is not supported, this is not enforced.
```

> extension developer should follow best practices and comply with the overall

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your extension developer should follow best practices and comply with the overall
```

> contract.

Reviewer: What is the "overall" contract? As opposed to what?
